SPAN: SPectral ANalysis software V5.0
Daniele Gasparri, February 2024


****Quick start****
Press the "Load spectra" button to load the example files.

The spectra loaded will appear in the upper central frame (the white window). Just select one spectrum with the mouse, then click "Plot" to see it. Close the plot to activate again the main panel. You can select one of the many operations possible in the other frames, for example the "Add noise", then press "Preview spectrum" to see the result. If you like it, you can click "Process selected" to save the work (but first you need to close the plot window!). If you press "Process all" you will apply the operation selected to all the loaded spectra. The results will be stored in the folder "results/". The output window is your friend: it will tell you all the things that the program is doing.

Now, let's try something in the "Spectral analysis" frame. We activate the "Equivalent width (EW)" task, we click on "Equivalent width parameters" and we select the option "Single index". We confirm the parameters by clicking the button "Confirm" and we preview the results by clicking the "Preview result" button. The spectrum does look strange to you? Did you unactivate the "Add noise" task above? If not, the "Equivalent width (EW)" task is analysing this noisy spectrum and not the original one. Congratulations, you just discovered why the "Spectral Analysis" frame is separated from the others: it will consider the spectrum (or the spectra) processed by the other upper frames. If you activate 10 tasks, the spectrum processed in this frame will be the sum of all the activated tasks above. If you don't activate any task, the spectrum processed will be the original loaded.

If you activated so many tasks that the entropy of the program tends to infinite, don't worry. Just click on the menu: "Edit --> Clear all tasks" to start from fresh. If you want to restore also the default parameters, you can do it with: "File --> Restore default parameters". If you want to save your personal parameters, you can do with: "File --> Save parameters" and load them again whenever you want.

